.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2007 Fredrik Tolf <fredrik@dolda2000.com>
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.TH DOLCON 1 "2007-09-30" "" "Dolda Connect manual"
.SH NAME
dolcon \- Graphical user interface for Dolda Connect
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dolcon
[ \fB-hl\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBdolcon\fP program runs a graphical user interface for Dolda
Connect. It controls the \fBdoldacond\fP(8) daemon, which is the
program doing all the actual work (consequently, \fBdoldacond\fP must
be running to use \fBdolcon\fP). The high-level operations currently
supported by \fBdolcon\fP include connecting to hubs, chatting on
hubs, searching for files and request to download them, watching the
status of currently ongoing file transfers.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h
Displays a brief usage message on stdout and exits.
.TP
.B -l
Directly on startup, automatically connect to the doldacond server
running locally on the machine (that is, via a Unix socket). This
option is primarily intended for use by the GUI shell of Dolda
Connect.
.SH FILES
Configuration options for \fBdolcon\fP will be stored in the files
~/.dolconrc. It is saved when the program exits normally.
.SH AUTHOR
Fredrik Tolf <fredrik@dolda2000.com>
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBdoldacond\fP(8)
