.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2007 Fredrik Tolf <fredrik@dolda2000.com>
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.TH HUBMGR 1 "2008-03-03" "" "Dolda Connect manual"
.SH NAME
hubmgr \- Automatic hub manager for Dolda Connect
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hubmgr
[ \fB-dq\fP ] [ \fB-s\fP \fIserver\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBhubmgr\fP program will read a list of Direct Connect hubs, and
try to ensure that they are connected to at all times. That involves
both connecting to them initially, and reconnecting to them, should
they later disconnect for any reason. If a hub is unreachable,
\fBhubmgr\fP will keep trying to connect to it in intervals until
successful.
.P
\fBhubmgr\fP handles the SIGINT, SIGHUP and SIGTERM signals and exit
upon receipt of either one of them. It will also listen for messages
on the name \fBhubmgr\fP and exit if it receives a message with the
first token being \fBexit\fP. Upon exit, it will disconnect all
managed hubs.
.P
\fBhubmgr\fP will check its configuration file (which is described
below in the FILES section) for updates on a regular basis. If the
file has changed, it will be reread and \fBhubmgr\fP will connect to
any new hubs encountered, as well as disconnect from hubs that have
been removed from the file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -d
Normally, \fBhubmgr\fP will daemonize after it has connected and
authenticated to the daemon successfully. Giving the -d option will
cause it to continue running in the foreground instead.
.TP
.B -q
Signals more quiet operation. Only error messages will be displayed.
.TP
.BI -s " server"
Connect to \fIserver\fP instead of the default server.
.SH FILES
The configuration file for \fBhubmgr\fP is named ~/.hublist. It needs
to be formatted as follows:
.P
The file format is line oriented. A line may be empty, causing it to
be ignored. There is no syntax for comments. Each non-empty line will
be divided into words, separated by spaces. Spaces within a word may
be quoted by enclosing the word in citation marks. The first word on
each line is the protocol the hub uses. Currently, only the \fBdc\fP
protocol is supported, signalling a normal Direct Connect hub. The
second word is the address to the hub, using either a domain name or
an IP address, followed by a colon, followed by the port number of the
hub. The port number must always be specified.
.P
After the protocol and address words, an arbitrary number of optional
arguments may follow, to specify such things as the nickname to use,
or a password to supply to the hub. An argument is two words; one word
to specify what argument it is, and another for the actual value. The
following arguments are currently available:
.TP
.BI nick " nickname"
Use \fInickname\fP instead of the server-wide default nickname when
connecting to the hub.
.TP
.BI password " password"
If the hub requests a password when connecting, use the given
\fIpassword\fP for that purpose.
.TP
.BI charset " charset"
Use the given charset when communicating with the hub. If this
argument is not given, the Microsoft CP1252 charset will be used. Most
hubs will expect the default charset. This option is somewhat
experimental, and, due to the inherent non-internationalized nature of
the Direct Connect protocol, may not work quite as one would expect.
.TP
.BI dcppemu " emulation"
Override the \fBdc.dcppemu\fP option configured in the daemon for this
specific hub, if \fIemulation\fP is \fBy\fP or \fBn\fP. See the
\fBdoldacond.conf\fP(5) manual page for further information about
\fBdc.dcppemu\fP.
.SS Examples
The following example, if copied into the ~/.hublist file, will
connect to three hubs. The first one will be connected to normally,
without any special processing. The second one requires a
password. The third one requires both a special nickname and a
password, which contains a space.
.P
.nf
dc hub1.somenet.org:411
dc dc.someother.net:555 password s3cr3t
dc a.thirdnet.com:411 nick Cooldude password "Very Secret"
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Fredrik Tolf <fredrik@dolda2000.com>
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBdoldacond.conf\fP(5), \fBdoldacond\fP(8)
